License for Brian2
------------------

Copyright ENS, INRIA, CNRS
Contributors: The Brian team: http://briansimulator.org/team/

Brian2 is a computer program whose purpose is to simulate models
of biological neural networks that is released under the terms of the
CeCILL 2.1 license.

CeCILL FREE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

Version 2.1 dated 2013-06-21

    Notice

This Agreement is a Free Software license agreement that is the result
of discussions between its authors in order to ensure compliance with
the two main principles guiding its drafting:

  * firstly, compliance with the principles governing the distribution
    of Free Software: access to source code, broad rights granted to users,
  * secondly, the election of a governing law, French law, with which it
    is conformant, both as regards the law of torts and intellectual
    property law, and the protection that it offers to both authors and
    holders of the economic rights over software.

The authors of the CeCILL (for Ce[a] C[nrs] I[nria] L[ogiciel] L[ibre])
license are:

Commissariat à l'énergie atomique et aux énergies alternatives - CEA, a
public scientific, technical and industrial research establishment,
having its principal place of business at 25 rue Leblanc, immeuble Le
Ponant D, 75015 Paris, France.

Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique - CNRS, a public scientific
and technological establishment, having its principal place of business
at 3 rue Michel-Ange, 75794 Paris cedex 16, France.

Institut National de Recherche en Informatique et en Automatique -
Inria, a public scientific and technological establishment, having its
principal place of business at Domaine de Voluceau, Rocquencourt, BP
105, 78153 Le Chesnay cedex, France.


    Preamble

The purpose of this Free Software license agreement is to grant users
the right to modify and redistribute the software governed by this
license within the framework of an open source distribution model.

The exercising of this right is conditional upon certain obligations for
users so as to preserve this status for all subsequent redistributions.

In consideration of access to the source code and the rights to copy,
modify and redistribute granted by the license, users are provided only
with a limited warranty and the software's author, the holder of the
economic rights, and the successive licensors only have limited liability.

In this respect, the risks associated with loading, using, modifying
and/or developing or reproducing the software by the user are brought to
the user's attention, given its Free Software status, which may make it
complicated to use, with the result that its use is reserved for
developers and experienced professionals having in-depth computer
knowledge. Users are therefore encouraged to load and test the
suitability of the software as regards their requirements in conditions
enabling the security of their systems and/or data to be ensured and,
more generally, to use and operate it in the same conditions of
security. This Agreement may be freely reproduced and published,
provided it is not altered, and that no provisions are either added or
removed herefrom.

This Agreement may apply to any or all software for which the holder of
the economic rights decides to submit the use thereof to its provisions.

Frequently asked questions can be found on the official website of the
CeCILL licenses family (http://www.cecill.info/index.en.html) for any
necessary clarification.


    Article 1 - DEFINITIONS

For the purpose of this Agreement, when the following expressions
commence with a capital letter, they shall have the following meaning:

Agreement: means this license agreement, and its possible subsequent
versions and annexes.

Software: means the software in its Object Code and/or Source Code form
and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when the Licensee
accepts the Agreement.

Initial Software: means the Software in its Source Code and possibly its
Object Code form and, where applicable, its documentation, "as is" when
it is first distributed under the terms and conditions of the Agreement.

Modified Software: means the Software modified by at least one
Contribution.

Source Code: means all the Software's instructions and program lines to
which access is required so as to modify the Software.

Object Code: means the binary files originating from the compilation of
the Source Code.

Holder: means the holder(s) of the economic rights over the Initial
Software.

Licensee: means the Software user(s) having accepted the Agreement.

Contributor: means a Licensee having made at least one Contribution.

Licensor: means the Holder, or any other individual or legal entity, who
distributes the Software under the Agreement.

Contribution: means any or all modifications, corrections, translations,
adaptations and/or new functions integrated into the Software by any or
all Contributors, as well as any or all Internal Modules.

Module: means a set of sources files including their documentation that
enables supplementary functions or services in addition to those offered
by the Software.

External Module: means any or all Modules, not derived from the
Software, so that this Module and the Software run in separate address
spaces, with one calling the other when they are run.

Internal Module: means any or all Module, connected to the Software so
that they both execute in the same address space.

GNU GPL: means the GNU General Public License version 2 or any
subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.

GNU Affero GPL: means the GNU Affero General Public License version 3 or
any subsequent version, as published by the Free Software Foundation Inc.

EUPL: means the European Union Public License version 1.1 or any
subsequent version, as published by the European Commission.

Parties: mean both the Licensee and the Licensor.

These expressions may be used both in singular and plural form.


    Article 2 - PURPOSE

The purpose of the Agreement is the grant by the Licensor to the
Licensee of a non-exclusive, transferable and worldwide license for the
Software as set forth in Article 5 <#scope> hereinafter for the whole
term of the protection granted by the rights over said Software.


    Article 3 - ACCEPTANCE

3.1 The Licensee shall be deemed as having accepted the terms and
conditions of this Agreement upon the occurrence of the first of the
following events:

  * (i) loading the Software by any or all means, notably, by
    downloading from a remote server, or by loading from a physical medium;
  * (ii) the first time the Licensee exercises any of the rights granted
    hereunder.

3.2 One copy of the Agreement, containing a notice relating to the
characteristics of the Software, to the limited warranty, and to the
fact that its use is restricted to experienced users has been provided
to the Licensee prior to its acceptance as set forth in Article 3.1
<#accepting> hereinabove, and the Licensee hereby acknowledges that it
has read and understood it.


    Article 4 - EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM


      4.1 EFFECTIVE DATE

The Agreement shall become effective on the date when it is accepted by
the Licensee as set forth in Article 3.1 <#accepting>.


      4.2 TERM

The Agreement shall remain in force for the entire legal term of
protection of the economic rights over the Software.


    Article 5 - SCOPE OF RIGHTS GRANTED

The Licensor hereby grants to the Licensee, who accepts, the following
rights over the Software for any or all use, and for the term of the
Agreement, on the basis of the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter.

Besides, if the Licensor owns or comes to own one or more patents
protecting all or part of the functions of the Software or of its
components, the Licensor undertakes not to enforce the rights granted by
these patents against successive Licensees using, exploiting or
modifying the Software. If these patents are transferred, the Licensor
undertakes to have the transferees subscribe to the obligations set
forth in this paragraph.


      5.1 RIGHT OF USE

The Licensee is authorized to use the Software, without any limitation
as to its fields of application, with it being hereinafter specified
that this comprises:

 1. permanent or temporary reproduction of all or part of the Software
    by any or all means and in any or all form.

 2. loading, displaying, running, or storing the Software on any or all
    medium.

 3. entitlement to observe, study or test its operation so as to
    determine the ideas and principles behind any or all constituent
    elements of said Software. This shall apply when the Licensee
    carries out any or all loading, displaying, running, transmission or
    storage operation as regards the Software, that it is entitled to
    carry out hereunder.


      5.2 ENTITLEMENT TO MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS

The right to make Contributions includes the right to translate, adapt,
arrange, or make any or all modifications to the Software, and the right
to reproduce the resulting software.

The Licensee is authorized to make any or all Contributions to the
Software provided that it includes an explicit notice that it is the
author of said Contribution and indicates the date of the creation thereof.


      5.3 RIGHT OF DISTRIBUTION

In particular, the right of distribution includes the right to publish,
transmit and communicate the Software to the general public on any or
all medium, and by any or all means, and the right to market, either in
consideration of a fee, or free of charge, one or more copies of the
Software by any means.

The Licensee is further authorized to distribute copies of the modified
or unmodified Software to third parties according to the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter.


        5.3.1 DISTRIBUTION OF SOFTWARE WITHOUT MODIFICATION

The Licensee is authorized to distribute true copies of the Software in
Source Code or Object Code form, provided that said distribution
complies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

 1. a copy of the Agreement,

 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty
    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,

and that, in the event that only the Object Code of the Software is
redistributed, the Licensee allows effective access to the full Source
Code of the Software for a period of at least three years from the
distribution of the Software, it being understood that the additional
acquisition cost of the Source Code shall not exceed the cost of the
data transfer.


        5.3.2 DISTRIBUTION OF MODIFIED SOFTWARE

When the Licensee makes a Contribution to the Software, the terms and
conditions for the distribution of the resulting Modified Software
become subject to all the provisions of this Agreement.

The Licensee is authorized to distribute the Modified Software, in
source code or object code form, provided that said distribution
complies with all the provisions of the Agreement and is accompanied by:

 1. a copy of the Agreement,

 2. a notice relating to the limitation of both the Licensor's warranty
    and liability as set forth in Articles 8 and 9,

and, in the event that only the object code of the Modified Software is
redistributed,

 3. a note stating the conditions of effective access to the full source
    code of the Modified Software for a period of at least three years
    from the distribution of the Modified Software, it being understood
    that the additional acquisition cost of the source code shall not
    exceed the cost of the data transfer.


        5.3.3 DISTRIBUTION OF EXTERNAL MODULES

When the Licensee has developed an External Module, the terms and
conditions of this Agreement do not apply to said External Module, that
may be distributed under a separate license agreement.


        5.3.4 COMPATIBILITY WITH OTHER LICENSES

The Licensee can include a code that is subject to the provisions of one
of the versions of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL in the
Modified or unmodified Software, and distribute that entire code under
the terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.

The Licensee can include the Modified or unmodified Software in a code
that is subject to the provisions of one of the versions of the GNU GPL,
GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL and distribute that entire code under the
terms of the same version of the GNU GPL, GNU Affero GPL and/or EUPL.


    Article 6 - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY


      6.1 OVER THE INITIAL SOFTWARE

The Holder owns the economic rights over the Initial Software. Any or
all use of the Initial Software is subject to compliance with the terms
and conditions under which the Holder has elected to distribute its work
and no one shall be entitled to modify the terms and conditions for the
distribution of said Initial Software.

The Holder undertakes that the Initial Software will remain ruled at
least by this Agreement, for the duration set forth in Article 4.2 <#term>.


      6.2 OVER THE CONTRIBUTIONS

The Licensee who develops a Contribution is the owner of the
intellectual property rights over this Contribution as defined by
applicable law.


      6.3 OVER THE EXTERNAL MODULES

The Licensee who develops an External Module is the owner of the
intellectual property rights over this External Module as defined by
applicable law and is free to choose the type of agreement that shall
govern its distribution.


      6.4 JOINT PROVISIONS

The Licensee expressly undertakes:

 1. not to remove, or modify, in any manner, the intellectual property
    notices attached to the Software;

 2. to reproduce said notices, in an identical manner, in the copies of
    the Software modified or not.

The Licensee undertakes not to directly or indirectly infringe the
intellectual property rights on the Software of the Holder and/or
Contributors, and to take, where applicable, vis-à-vis its staff, any
and all measures required to ensure respect of said intellectual
property rights of the Holder and/or Contributors.


    Article 7 - RELATED SERVICES

7.1 Under no circumstances shall the Agreement oblige the Licensor to
provide technical assistance or maintenance services for the Software.

However, the Licensor is entitled to offer this type of services. The
terms and conditions of such technical assistance, and/or such
maintenance, shall be set forth in a separate instrument. Only the
Licensor offering said maintenance and/or technical assistance services
shall incur liability therefor.

7.2 Similarly, any Licensor is entitled to offer to its licensees, under
its sole responsibility, a warranty, that shall only be binding upon
itself, for the redistribution of the Software and/or the Modified
Software, under terms and conditions that it is free to decide. Said
warranty, and the financial terms and conditions of its application,
shall be subject of a separate instrument executed between the Licensor
and the Licensee.


    Article 8 - LIABILITY

8.1 Subject to the provisions of Article 8.2, the Licensee shall be
entitled to claim compensation for any direct loss it may have suffered
from the Software as a result of a fault on the part of the relevant
Licensor, subject to providing evidence thereof.

8.2 The Licensor's liability is limited to the commitments made under
this Agreement and shall not be incurred as a result of in particular:
(i) loss due the Licensee's total or partial failure to fulfill its
obligations, (ii) direct or consequential loss that is suffered by the
Licensee due to the use or performance of the Software, and (iii) more
generally, any consequential loss. In particular the Parties expressly
agree that any or all pecuniary or business loss (i.e. loss of data,
loss of profits, operating loss, loss of customers or orders,
opportunity cost, any disturbance to business activities) or any or all
legal proceedings instituted against the Licensee by a third party,
shall constitute consequential loss and shall not provide entitlement to
any or all compensation from the Licensor.


    Article 9 - WARRANTY

9.1 The Licensee acknowledges that the scientific and technical
state-of-the-art when the Software was distributed did not enable all
possible uses to be tested and verified, nor for the presence of
possible defects to be detected. In this respect, the Licensee's
attention has been drawn to the risks associated with loading, using,
modifying and/or developing and reproducing the Software which are
reserved for experienced users.

The Licensee shall be responsible for verifying, by any or all means,
the suitability of the product for its requirements, its good working
order, and for ensuring that it shall not cause damage to either persons
or properties.

9.2 The Licensor hereby represents, in good faith, that it is entitled
to grant all the rights over the Software (including in particular the
rights set forth in Article 5 <#scope>).

9.3 The Licensee acknowledges that the Software is supplied "as is" by
the Licensor without any other express or tacit warranty, other than
that provided for in Article 9.2 <#good-faith> and, in particular,
without any warranty as to its commercial value, its secured, safe,
innovative or relevant nature.

Specifically, the Licensor does not warrant that the Software is free
from any error, that it will operate without interruption, that it will
be compatible with the Licensee's own equipment and software
configuration, nor that it will meet the Licensee's requirements.

9.4 The Licensor does not either expressly or tacitly warrant that the
Software does not infringe any third party intellectual property right
relating to a patent, software or any other property right. Therefore,
the Licensor disclaims any and all liability towards the Licensee
arising out of any or all proceedings for infringement that may be
instituted in respect of the use, modification and redistribution of the
Software. Nevertheless, should such proceedings be instituted against
the Licensee, the Licensor shall provide it with technical and legal
expertise for its defense. Such technical and legal expertise shall be
decided on a case-by-case basis between the relevant Licensor and the
Licensee pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. The Licensor
disclaims any and all liability as regards the Licensee's use of the
name of the Software. No warranty is given as regards the existence of
prior rights over the name of the Software or as regards the existence
of a trademark.


    Article 10 - TERMINATION

10.1 In the event of a breach by the Licensee of its obligations
hereunder, the Licensor may automatically terminate this Agreement
thirty (30) days after notice has been sent to the Licensee and has
remained ineffective.

10.2 A Licensee whose Agreement is terminated shall no longer be
authorized to use, modify or distribute the Software. However, any
licenses that it may have granted prior to termination of the Agreement
shall remain valid subject to their having been granted in compliance
with the terms and conditions hereof.


    Article 11 - MISCELLANEOUS


      11.1 EXCUSABLE EVENTS

Neither Party shall be liable for any or all delay, or failure to
perform the Agreement, that may be attributable to an event of force
majeure, an act of God or an outside cause, such as defective
functioning or interruptions of the electricity or telecommunications
networks, network paralysis following a virus attack, intervention by
government authorities, natural disasters, water damage, earthquakes,
fire, explosions, strikes and labor unrest, war, etc.

11.2 Any failure by either Party, on one or more occasions, to invoke
one or more of the provisions hereof, shall under no circumstances be
interpreted as being a waiver by the interested Party of its right to
invoke said provision(s) subsequently.

11.3 The Agreement cancels and replaces any or all previous agreements,
whether written or oral, between the Parties and having the same
purpose, and constitutes the entirety of the agreement between said
Parties concerning said purpose. No supplement or modification to the
terms and conditions hereof shall be effective as between the Parties
unless it is made in writing and signed by their duly authorized
representatives.

11.4 In the event that one or more of the provisions hereof were to
conflict with a current or future applicable act or legislative text,
said act or legislative text shall prevail, and the Parties shall make
the necessary amendments so as to comply with said act or legislative
text. All other provisions shall remain effective. Similarly, invalidity
of a provision of the Agreement, for any reason whatsoever, shall not
cause the Agreement as a whole to be invalid.


      11.5 LANGUAGE

The Agreement is drafted in both French and English and both versions
are deemed authentic.


    Article 12 - NEW VERSIONS OF THE AGREEMENT

12.1 Any person is authorized to duplicate and distribute copies of this
Agreement.

12.2 So as to ensure coherence, the wording of this Agreement is
protected and may only be modified by the authors of the License, who
reserve the right to periodically publish updates or new versions of the
Agreement, each with a separate number. These subsequent versions may
address new issues encountered by Free Software.

12.3 Any Software distributed under a given version of the Agreement may
only be subsequently distributed under the same version of the Agreement
or a subsequent version, subject to the provisions of Article 5.3.4
<#compatibility>.


    Article 13 - GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION

13.1 The Agreement is governed by French law. The Parties agree to
endeavor to seek an amicable solution to any disagreements or disputes
that may arise during the performance of the Agreement.

13.2 Failing an amicable solution within two (2) months as from their
occurrence, and unless emergency proceedings are necessary, the
disagreements or disputes shall be referred to the Paris Courts having
jurisdiction, by the more diligent Party.


Licenses for incorporated software
----------------------------------

The code in brian2.sphinxext.generate_reference.py is based on sphinx.apidoc
(http://sphinx-doc.org, https://bitbucket.org/birkenfeld/sphinx/) available
under the BSD license:

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (c) 2007-2013 by the Sphinx team (see AUTHORS file).
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The code in the brian2.sphinxext package is based on the files numpydoc.py,
docscrape.py, docscrape_sphinx.py, part of numpydoc
(https://github.com/numpy/numpy/tree/master/doc/sphinxext), available under the
BSD license:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright (C) 2008 Stefan van der Walt <stefan@mentat.za.net>,
                   Pauli Virtanen <pav@iki.fi>

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The implementations for binomial (brian2.input.binomial) and Poisson
distributed random numbers (in brian2.codegen.generators.cython_generator and
brian2.codegen.generators.cpp_generator) are based on the respective
implementations in the numpy library (https://github.com/numpy/numpy),
available under the BSD license:

Copyright (c) 2005-2019, NumPy Developers.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
       copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
       disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
       with the distribution.

    * Neither the name of the NumPy Developers nor the names of any
       contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
       from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The spelling corrector code in brian2.utils.stringtools is based on the spelling
corrector by Peter Norvig, available at: http://norvig.com/spell.py
It is published under the MIT license:

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2007 Peter Norvig

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

--

The `rand()` and `randn()` implementations are based on code by
Jean-Sebastien Roy, provided under the MIT license:

Copyright (c) 2003-2005, Jean-Sebastien Roy (js@jeannot.org)

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--

Constants used in the rk_double implementation by Isaku Wada.

--

The floor division and modulo implementations for integer numbers in C++ standalone
are based on the implementation in Cython (https://github.com/cython/cython), published
under the Apache License 2.0:
                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        https://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS